Writing a new JSON-RPC server for use with qooxdoo is fairly easy.  If you
follow these rules, you should end up with a conformant implementation.

JSON.
  With the exception of the formatting of Javascript "Date" objects, all
  communication between client and server is formated as JSON, as described
  and documented at http://json.org.

  Date objects are a problem in standard JSON encoding, because there is no
  "literal" syntax for a date in Javascript.  In Javascript, nearly everthing
  can be represented in literal form: objects by { ... }; arrays by [ ... ];
  etc.  The only native type which can not be represented as a literal is a
  Date.  For this reason, a format for passing Dates in JSON is defined here
  so that all conforming servers can parse the data received from clients.

  Date objects are sent as the following 'tokens'.

    - The string "new Date(Date.UTC("
    - The year, integer, e.g. 2006
    - A comma
    - The month, 0-relative integer, e.g. 5 is June
    - A comma
    - The day of the month, integer, range: 1-31
    - A comma
    - The hour of the day on a 24-hour clock, integer, range: 0-23
    - A comma
    - The minute of the hour, integer, range: 0-59
    - A comma
    - The second within the minute, integer, range: 0-59
    - A comma
    - The milliseconds within the second, integer, range: 0-999
    - The string "))"

  A resulting Date representation might therefore be:

    new Date(Date.UTC(2006,5,20,22,18,42,223))

  Notes:
    Whitespace -
      - when generating these date strings, implementations SHOULD NOT add
        white space before/after/between any of the fields within the date
        string 
      - when parsing these date strings, implementations SHOULD allow white
        space before/after/between any of the fields within the date string 
    Numbers -
      - when generating these date strings, implementations MUST NOT add
        leading zeros to the numeric values in the date string.  Doing so will
        cause them to be parsed as octal values.  Numbers MUST be passed in
        decimal (base 10) notation without leading zeros.
      - when parsing these date strings, implementations MUST take the
        integer value of numeric portions of the string as base 10 values,
        even if leading zeros appear in the string representation of the
        numbers..

  Within the JSON protocol and in JSON messages between peers, Date objects
  are always passed as UTC.

RPC.
  Remote procedure calls are issued using JSON seralization.  The basis for
  the objects used to send requests and responses are described and defined at
  http://json-rpc.org, specifically http://json-rpc.org/wiki/specification.
  This document introduces a number of differences to that specification,
  based on real-life implementation discoveries and needs.  This portion of
  this document is an edited version of the JSON-RPC specification.

    1.1 request (method invocation)

    A remote method is invoked by sending a request to a remote service. The
    request is a single object serialized using JSON.

    It has four properties:

        * service - A String containing the name of the service.  The server
          may use this to locate a set of related methods, all contained
          within the specified service.  The format of the supported service
          strings is up to the server implementation.
        * method - A String containing the name of the method to be invoked.
          The method must exist within the specified service.  The format of
          the method string is up to the server implementation.
        * params - An Array of objects to pass as arguments to the method.
        * id - The request id. This can be of any type. It is used to match
          the response with the request that it is replying to.  (qooxdoo
          always sends an integer value for id.)

    1.2 response

    When the method invocation completes, the service must reply with a
    response. The response is a single object serialized using JSON.

    It has three properties:

        * result - The Object that was returned by the invoked method. This
          must be null in case there was an error invoking the method.
        * error - An Error Object if there was an error invoking the
          method. (See "The Error Object", below.) It must be null if there
          was no error.  Note that determination of whether an error occurred
          is based on this property being null, not on result being null.  It
          is perfectly legal for both to be null, indicating a valid result
          with value null.
        * id - This must be the same id as the request it is responding to. 

The Error Object
    An error object contains two properties:

        * origin - An error can be originated in four locations, during the
          process of initiating and processing a remote procedure call.  Each
          possible origin is assigned an integer value, assigned to this
          property, as follows:

            1 = the server can return errors to the client
            2 = methods invoked by the server can return errors
            3 = Transport (e.g. HTTP) errors can occur
            4 = the client determined that an error occurred, e.g. timeout

          A conforming server implementation MUST send value 1 or 2 and MAY
          NOT send any other value, for origin.  A client may detect Transport
          or locally-ascertained errors, but a server will never return
          those.

        * code - An integer error code.  The value of code is hierarchically
          linked to origin; e.g. the same code represents different errors
          depending on the value of origin.

          One of these values of code SHALL be sent if origin = 1, i.e. if the
          server detected the error.

            - Error code, value 1: Illegal Service
                The service name contains illegal characters or is otherwise
                deemed unacceptable to the JSON-RPC server.

            - Error code, value 2: Service Not Found
                The requested service does not exist at the JSON-RPC server.

            - Error code, value 3: Class Not Found
                If the JSON-RPC server divides service methods into subsets
                (classes), this indicates that the specified class was not
                found.  This is slightly more detailed than "Method Not
                Found", but that error would always also be legal (and true)
                whenever this one is returned.

            - Error code, value 4: Method Not Found
                The method specified in the request is not found in the
                requested service.

            - Error code, value 5: Parameter Mismatch
                If a method discovers that the parameters (arguments) provided
                to it do not match the requisite types for the method's
                parameters, it should return this error code to indicate so to
                the caller.

            - Error code, value 6: Permission Denied
                A JSON-RPC service provider can require authentication, and
                that authentication can be implemented such the method takes
                authentication parameters, or such that a method or class of
                methods requires prior authentication.  If the caller has not
                properly authenticated to use the requested method, this error
                code is returned.
                
          If origin = 2, i.e. the application (invoked method) detected the
          error, the value of the code property is entirely by agreement
          between the invoking client and the and invoked method.

Other Errors

  Errors detected by the server which indicate that the received data is not a
  JSON-RPC request SHOULD be simple text strings returned to the invoker,
  describing the error.  A web browser user who accidentally hits the URL of a
  JSON-RPC server should receive a textual, not Error Object, response,
  indicating that the server is expecting a JSON-RPC request.

Transport
        
  A client may issue requests to the server in either of two ways:
  XmlHTTPTransport request, or via POST data transported through an Iframe
  form.  A server may ascertain which method was used by looking at the
  "Content Type:" of the received request:

    XmlHTTPTransport
      Content Type: text/json

    IframeTransport
      Content Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
  
  In the former case, the received data is the JSON-serialized request object.
  In the latter case, the JSON-serialized request object is passed in a form
  field called "_data_".

  A server SHOULD issue an "Other Error" (textual reply) if it detects a
  Content Type other than the two supported ones.  It SHOULD also issue an
  "Other Error" if a form was received but the form either does not contain a
  _data_ field or if fields other than _data_ exist in the form.

Testing A New Server

  To validate that your new server is operating properly, the following test
  methods may be created at your server:

    echo -
      Echo the one and only parameter back to the client, in the form:
        Client said: [ <parameter> ]
      where all text above is literal except for <parameter>.

    sink -
      Sink all data and never return.  ("Never" is a long time, so it may be
      simulated by sleeping for 240 seconds.

    sleep -
      Sleep for the number of seconds provided as the first parameter, and
      then return that parameter.

    getInteger -
      Return the integer value 1

    getFloat -
      Return the floating point value 1/3

    getString -
      Return the string "Hello world"

    getArrayInteger -
      Return an array containing the four integers
        [ 1, 2, 3, 4 ]
     in that order.

    getArrayString -
      Return an array containing the four strings
        [ "one", "two", "three", "four" ]
      in that order

    getObject -
      Return some arbitrary object

    getTrue -
      return the binary value 'true'

    getFalse -
      return the binary value 'false'

    getNull -
      return the value 'null'

    isInteger -
      return 'true' if the first parameter is an integer; 'false' otherwise

    isFloat -
      return 'true' if the first parameter is a float; 'false' otherwise

    isString -
      return 'true' if the first parameter is a string; 'false' otherwise

    isBoolean -
      return 'true' if the first parameter is either one of the boolean values
      'true' or 'false'; return 'false otherwise.

    isArray -
      return 'true' if the first parameter is an array; 'false' otherwise

    isObject -
      return 'true' if the first parameter is an object; 'false' otherwise

    isNull -
      return 'true' if the first parameter is the value 'null'; false
      otherwise.

    getParams -
      echo all parameters back to the client, in received order

    getParam -
      echo the first parameter back to the client.  This is a synonym for the
      'echo' method.

    getCurrentTimestamp -
      Return an object which has two properties:
        - an integer representing the current time in a native format, e.g. as
          a number of seconds or milliseconds since midnight on 1 Jan 1970.
        - a Date object representing that same point in time

  As of this writing, the tests demo/RPC_3.html and demo/RPC_4.html run
  through the whole set of tests and display the results in the logging div.
  You can look for "true" as a result of each request.

  A future test will validate that all returned values are as expected, and
  display a single "passed/fail" indication.
